and with Alzheimer's Disease by the time
you know a person is diagnosed your
brain's ability to derive energy to
create energy from glucose which is its
primary fuel substrate is diminished by
about 50% any power outage in that organ
is going to lead to failure
[Music]
hello everybody today I'm talking with
Max luga who flew in from LA to
Washington DC to have this conversation
with me he's a journalist who's become
quite a well-known scientific researcher
and popularizer but also a creative
investigator in his own right he wrote a
Trilogy of books The Genius Trilogy one
on Foods one on life and one a recipe
book on the kitchen and is also the
producer of a documentary that'll be
released at the end of June 2024 called
little empty boxes all of that was
motivated by his mother's experience
with a form of dementia known as um that
involves the degeneration of these
neurological tissues known as Louis
bodies uh it's not Alzheimer's or
frontal temporal dementia it's another
form of dementia and he was very shocked
by his mother's illness which she
developed when she was in her late 50s
and
also by the dir of effective treatment
that was available to her and ended up
obsessively concentrating on Research
into the dementias in general concluding
as have many people in the last decade
that the dementia spectrum of illnesses
and that includes Parkinson's by the way
might well be
preventable with interven ions that are
early enough in life and that many of
those interventions might be dietary in
nature and we discuss why that is and
talk about the carnivore diet as well as
a potential uh
diagnostic investigative tool for the
analysis of complex disease in general
and well I suppose in some ways
celebrate the possibility that dietary
modulation might prove to be the
treatment of choice on the prevention
side for these terrible degenerative
neurological diseases so join us for
that so I'm interested in diet I suppose
despite myself I would say because it's
not my natural domain of interest um I'm
more interested in psychological matters
let's say than physical or physiological
matters I know they overlap but my
attention doesn't naturally gravitate
that way but I have definitely learned
that many of the things that I would
have been tempted to assume were
psychological aren't I mean I've known
for a long time for example that
endogenous
depression the schizophrenic disorders
and manic depression I never thought of
those as psychological disorders I
thought no those people are sick we just
don't know what's wrong with them so I
spoke with Chris Palmer in some detail
on my podcast and I just met him again
in Boston he's got a couple of research
projects finishing up he's got 15 on the
goal looking at treatment of those
disorders with diet and the first three
have been spectacularly successful
so
diet right so let's start with your
Genius work and and line for people what
you're what those are and what you're
doing um with them and why let's start
with that sure so I've written a uh a
Trilogy of books The Genius Trilogy as
it were and um my first book was called
genius foods and it came out in
2018 and it's a Tome to uh and an homage
really to the science of both dementia
prevention as well as the burgeoning
field that's being referred to as
nutritional Psychiatry so how right diet
plays a role in you know
mediating mental health um in so far as
it does play a role there's this this
really you know exciting area of
research looking at how our diets are
you know are able to influence our moods
which I think is incredibly exciting um
I followed that up with a book called
the Genius life which was a more was a
more lifestyle Centric guide um and then
my third book came out in
2020 I'm sorry 2022 and it was a
cookbook kind of bringing everything
together but um my work really I would
say primarily explores the intersection
between diet and lifestyle and brain
health and the reason why I wrote these
books um is because I was personally
affected by uh Dementia by a form of
dementia called Louis body dementia
which prior to even receiving that
diagnosis um in my family it's a
condition that my mom suffered from um
I became obsessed with trying to
understand all that I could how old was
she when that happened she was 58 years
old right when she first started to show
these amorphous symptoms that what did
what symptoms did she show so she had um
symptoms that both uh occurred
concurrently um some of them were
movement related so rigidity balance
issues stiffness I guess rigidity and
stiffness are similar um but uh yeah
yeah a real lack of coordination um you
know reduced swinging in the arms you
know I'm not a medical doctor so I
didn't have any framework with which to
understand what I was seeing my mom
exhibit I thought you know movement
symptoms that's a musculoskeletal
condition right has to be um but then in
tandem with those symptoms she also
displayed Stark cognitive dysfunction
and um it's not necessarily that she you
know started to
forget simple things like you know who
she was who who her who her family
members were but it seemed as though her
I've likened it to when you have too
many tabs open in your browser window
it's just like the frame rate starts to
stutter and that's sort of what I what I
saw in my mom who was very much still in
the prime of her life had all the
pigment in her hair you know raised
three boys ran a
business and I had been a journalist
prior to that I had been a generalist
journalist um since College since
graduating college I uh worked for a I
had worked for a TV network that was
co-founded by Al Gore um it wasn't a
political Network and uh I certainly you
know was never really that into politics
um but I was uh sort of like this young
kid who was given the Reigns of this TV
network that reached 100 million homes
in the US and so when my mom became sick
I how old were you when she BEC when she
was diagnosed she was uh I was in my
late 20s okay yeah um and I had just
come off of that position and I was in
between jobs and um more so than than
being a journalist at the time I was
just a scared son you know I was a
scared son seeing you know these awful
symptoms these
mysterious there's not much worse than a
degenerative neurological disease yeah
they're brutal those things they take
you apart like Adam by Adam exactly and
and I had there was no precedent in my
family so I you know as soon as that
that the immediate trauma of of
realizing that my mom had something
serious going on with her brain health
MH it was a it was the most profound
call to action that I've ever felt in my
entire life to do what I could to
understand to the best of my ability why
this would have happened to a woman at
the age at which it did why were you so
compelled to do you think why were you
so compelled to transfigure your life to
come to the service of your
mom love I mean you know my mom was the
most important person in my life and
I'm the first born in an incredibly
small family um and uh I've always had
an incredibly close relationship with my
mother and
um right so this wasn't okay it wasn't
okay whenever I had so much as a cough
growing up I mean moments later I found
myself in the pediatrician's office and
when my mom became sick you know the
those around her were
not all that set up to really
understand what was going on I mean
we're not you know we as a society today
we Outsource so many different forms of
literacy right we Outsource culinary
literacy to GrubHub to our apps you know
we Outsource financial literacy to our
financial handlers um health literacy is
like it's a huge you know area it's a
it's a huge unknown like we all
collectively have you know these really
scary knowledge gaps which only become
apparent to you when you know you're
then you just get more scared because
you start to understand how big the
knowledge gaps are I've never recovered
from finding out that the food pyramid
was a scam yeah that's just that was
just the degree to which that's a scam
is I don't know is there a worse medical
crime in history than that no I mean
telling Americans to load up on 7 to 11
servings of grains every single day yeah
yeah and to to find out that that was a
market Ploy by the Department of
Agriculture and that they went against
the advice even of their own Consultants
warn them that they would produce an
epidemic of obesity and diabetes which
is well and not to to say nothing of
depression and dementia which is exactly
what we have now exactly it's like I
don't know what what you even do when
you find out that that's true yeah and
the and the unwarranted demonization of
natural fat containing foods
nutrient-dense foods like animal Source
foods which continue to be demonized
even by the American diabetic assoc is
it Association Society I don't remember
still pushing thetion that you know
diabetics can eat carbohydrates like
actually I don't think so I don't think
that's a very good idea since they're
converted to sugar for example and then
they're essentially glucose intolerant
right like it's a it's it's Madness and
um and you know with that with that
demonization of these like natural Whole
Foods I mean we live in a time where 60%
of the calories that your average
American consumes comes from what are
called Ultra processed foods so the an
the center of the supermarket exactly
antithesis to Whole Foods right so the
idea that we're still demonizing Whole
Foods to me is insane yeah yeah and
causes Insanity too so it's not just
insane it's a cause of insanity yeah
yeah I mean that is not what do you
think of RFK just out of curiosity
because there I'm sorry that's a
nonsecular in a sense but not exactly
like I've never seen another politician
make an issue of Health yeah right of of
General Health at the level that we're
discussing it viously covid became an
issue and public health is an issue but
Kennedy is the only candidate I've ever
seen who's calling out the reprehensible
mostly corporate actors who are
poisoning well everyone fundamentally
yeah and yeah I think he's an incredibly
important voice in that regard and I
hope that no matter what happens um in
November I hope that he finds a way to
continue his advocacy I mean I'm I'm uh
obviously you know completely aligned
with you know with the notion that we we
do need to begin start doing things
differently well what's the Obesity what
what's the percentage of Americans now
who are obese by 2030 1 and two and this
is not just overweight this is like
Frank obesity right right right and so
the morbidly obese will be one in five
yeah yeah unbelievable it's it's
unbelievable and obesity is a risk
factor for everything pretty much
everything yeah MH yeah and and the Cure
isn't fat positivity no no definitely
not no I mean you can be more or less
healthy at a at any given size but it's
less healthy to be obese than it is to
be normal weight you know I can
understand the fat positive people in
one way you know I would say before I
learned what I did learn about diet I
was I was never particularly judgmental
about people who are obese you know I
did I suppose to some degree accept the
idea that fewer calories a little more
exercise you lose weight and perhaps
that would I say that some more
willpower would be of use I don't know
if I ever really believed that because I
dealt with people who had all sorts of
different problems and reducing it to
something like inadequate
willpower yeah you got to be very
careful about doing such things but now
when I see obese people I think it's
really too bad that you're ill yeah y it
is a disease and it's a it's a there I I
feel a strong sense of empathy for them
because you know them they're being
gaslit essentially that's for sure
because what you hear over and over
again is this idea that all foods fit
there are no such thing as good foods or
bad
foods and that might be true at a
population Health level you know I mean
like and and there's no single food
that's going to cause obesity in an
individual right it's a it's a it's a
dietary pattern of the over you know you
typically involving the over consumption
of these Ultra processed foods well
you're you're more likely to overc
consume the foods that are what would
you say pathologically delicious yeah
right be made pathologically delicious
the high sugar foods in particular it's
very difficult to resist them and no
wonder yeah there was a a seminal NIH
funded study led by Kevin Hall who's a
highly regarded obesity researcher who
found that you know when you give people
an Ultra cess diet to consume and you
tell them to eat two Sati it's called ad
lium feed in the
literature they end up consuming a
calorie surplus of 500 additional
calories so you do that every single day
for a week that's a pound of fat gain
every single week right right and
conversely when they gave them these
minimally processed foods they saw them
eat to the same degree of satiety
fullness yeah but coming in effortlessly
at a calorie deficit of about 300
calories so that's that's an 800 calorie
S I wonder if that has anything to do
with seasonality of grain
you know well because I'm curious is our
our initial agricultural ancestors
especially in colder climates it's like
maybe you wanted to pack on an extra 20
PBS before winter hit you know and so
maybe that's an evolutionary adaptation
to ensure that from September to
December let's say that you took full
advantage of the Harvest so that if lean
times come it makes sense hey because
Islanders who've been on Islands for
many many generations are much likely
much more likely to become overweight on
a North American diet and you're much
more likely to go through starvation
periods on an island as a population and
so people who are very what either
efficient in their metabolisms or
perhaps liable to overeat in times of
Plenty would have been people who
survived so you know because it's
interesting right if there if there's a
stable degree to which you'll overeat
high calorie foods that indicates that
there's like there's a reason for that
that's not just random yeah so it's an
Adaptive survival mechanism those of us
who are the most adapt at putting on and
storing fat would make it through the
Famine of winter yeah the winter well
and you can see why that wouldn't happen
in the case of animal products because
your cows your Lambs your goats Etc they
can survive the winter no problem you
don't have a storage problem there yeah
and so and and you don't have a
seasonality problem so there's no reason
to pig out so to speak right okay okay
okay so let's go back to your to your
mother so one of the a also awful things
about neurological diseases is
that you're very damaged by the time
symptoms show up I've read with
Parkinson's for example the relevant
neurological tissue is 95% gone by the
time any symptoms appear right so that's
brutal yeah so with Parkinson's disease
about half by the time you are diagnosed
with the condition about half of the the
dopaminergic neurons in the substantia
are already already dead and those
are the neurons that produce dopamine
that that control movement and the like
um and this is a this is a condition
like many other chronic non-communicable
conditions today they don't begin
overnight they begin they you know
simmer they're simmering over a span of
decades prior to the onset of symptoms
well you can
predict probability of developing
dementia with verbal fluency measures
taken in people's
20s right right there's long-term study
of nuns they had fluency measures taken
when they were very young and so that's
an early indicator of we don't know
exactly what is it is it that the
dementia process is already occurring
that young or is that an indication that
the neurological substrate is less
robust it's not obvious well so yeah in
inflammation certainly plays a role in
reducing cognitive function being
overweight when people typically lose
weight um they see an improvement in
their in their cognitive function yeah
well you know the best I looked for a
long time into the
literature pertaining to maintenance of
cognitive function across time because
there's a linear decrease in your fluid
intelligence so that's G essentially the
central measure of cognitive ability it
starts to decline in your early 20s it's
pretty linear and so that's you know
that's a drag and then you might say
well what can you do to Forstall that
and there are many companies none of
which seem to exist anymore on the
internet that were claiming that you
know daily cognitive exercises could
increase your IQ or forall cognitive
degeneration but the literature always
indicated that uh your best bet in that
regard was both aerobic and non- aobc
exercise because the brain is such
a
rapacious metabolic it has such
rapacious metabolic demand if you're
physiologically compromised then your
brain's going to suffer first so the
best so funny he the best thing for your
brain is to be a gym jock so that's
really hilarious in a terrible
way the less your business spends on
operations on multiple systems and on
delivering your product or service the
more money you keep but with higher
expenses on materials employees
distribution and borrowing everything
costs more to reduce costs and headaches
smart businesses are graduating to
netsuite by Oracle netsuite is the
number one Cloud Financial system
bringing accounting financi Cal
management inventory and HR into one
platform and one source of Truth with
netw Suite you can reduce it costs cut
the cost of maintaining multiple systems
and improve efficiency by bringing all
your major business processes into one
platform and slashing manual tasks and
errors over 37,000 companies have
already made the move why haven't you by
popular demand netsuite has extended its
one-of-a-kind flexible financing program
for a few more weeks head to
netsuite.com JB P that's nets.com
jbp nets.com
jbp okay so you saw
this terrible illness take hold of your
mother and that motivated you motivated
you to
what well I'd always been interested in
Fitness and Nutrition um privately and
in fact when I started college my intent
was to go into medicine which I ended up
pivoting away from when I realized that
you know I really was a competent
Storyteller and creative um person and
uh and I ended up switching to a double
major in film and psychology in college
which uh you know in on the one hand
kept one foot in the world of science
you know as a as an
undergraduate um but then also I I
really kind of fell in love with
documentary filmm the idea of being able
to tell important stories um and that
was really my passion and that's what
led to to this role getting to produce
content for this TV network backed by Al
Gore so this is what what this is what
led ultimately to my foray into the
world of smart entertainment so
essentially creating content telling
stories investigating you know ideas
that um I felt were under discust and
uh and when my mom became sick you know
I had this passion this lifelong passion
for nutrition for health I knew where to
find quality primary literature
peer-reviewed research how do you know
that well in part due to my um my
passion for it you know so i' I'd been
familiar with PubMed um and you know and
all those sources uh and then as an
investigator you know as a journalist
you're I mean the the term journalism
today you know it's taken on a bit of a
different meaning but um you're of
course not trained as rigorously as a
PhD but you are trained to you know like
identify sources that are credible um
and be able to parse them from sources
that are less so you're trained to ask
questions to Dawn a skeptic's hat yeah
and those are the skills that I had when
my mom became sick and I'm not saying
that you know diving into the medical
literature as it pertains to dementia
prevention this burgeoning field of
research was easy for me at first it's
not easy for anyone it's not easy for
anybody and also most Physicians never
do it like the public has an idea that
there's not a lot of distinction between
a physician and a scientist
or they believe that Physicians are
scientists and most Physicians believe
that but they're not correct and most
Physicians aren't trained to read
research or assess it critically and
certainly not to participate in this
generation and so well the reason I'm
bringing that up is because there's no
reason to assume that if you're a
journalist and you have the cognitive
ability and persistence to plow through
the literature that you couldn't learn
how to assess it you can it's hard
because the scientific presuppose a
pretty high level of pre-existing
knowledge and so often if you dive into
a new field you have to go back down
into the simpler sources to just
understand even the Lexicon but it's not
like it's impossible yeah but I that's
something that I actually quite enjoy
you know I would I would read papers and
I would read the you know I started just
reading the introductions and the
discussions and the conclusions and I
would cross reference and I would you
know if there was something that I
didn't understand this is prior to AI I
would just cross reference it in the
hopes that some other scientist who is
maybe more verbally fluent would have
described the thing that I was
interested in in learning more about in
a different way that would lead to it
clicking in my brain that aesthetic aha
you know but um but yeah so that was
just like a Relentless
Um passion that had become an OB
Obsession because it was I was seeing
the consequences of how much time do you
think at that time when it was a
Relentless Obsession how much time do
you think you were spending every every
day doing that research every waking
moment and I was for how long for how
many like months or um it was probably a
span of I mean it was a span of about
six years prior to even you know the the
the potent the the the idea of of you
know having a book like being able to
write a book was even like so that's
about the equivalent of an extremely
rigorous Master's and PhD program six
years well that's about the same I would
say for people who really hit it hard
it's 6 years of obsessive work now it's
do you have any idea how many papers you
read thousands thousands yeah yeah um
and I also I you know at the time I had
become friendly with somebody who gave
me their academic credentials to log in
through their University librar so I can
download papers for free yeah something
that should be available to everyone
since the taxpayer funds the bloody
research yeah and um but then also along
the along somewhere early on in my
journey I realized that I had an
aptitude for what I was doing and for
you know my ability to not just digest
and synthesize into a cohesive narrative
what it was that I was reading but that
I was able to communicate in a way that
you know I started to Garner the respect
of the physicians in the doctor's
offices that I would attend to with my
mother and ultimately I became fairly
close
um friends and collaborators with
researchers in the field so at a certain
point this was when what years was this
around 2011 okay
um
I I started attending scientific
conferences and um I started sharing
what it was that I was learning and yeah
it was just a it was
a you know it was a journey that was
arduous at first but I just I I I kept
reading and reading and synthesizing and
reaching out to people how did you
support yourself while you were doing
this it was very hard I mean I wasn't
making any money I I actually because of
what my what it was that my mom was
going through I was living in La at the
time I ended up basically um sacrificing
my La life and moving back to New York
to to be closer to my mom to tend to her
and to you know in in essence become a
caregiver of sorts not the primary
caregiver but to help out with her and
um and this is what I was going to say
so I also at a certain point realized
that I had something that very few
people civilians very few civilians have
and that is Media credentials and so
really early on I realized that I could
exploit my media credentials I wasn't
famous but I had been on TV I was
verified on Twitter and I started
reaching out to researchers and
scientists whose work I had been reading
to ask questions and to essentially get
in the room with them so to speak to be
able to you know if there were any Ling
lingering questions or I needed you know
something clarified or what have you and
I ended up forging relationships with
these researchers because they saw the
passion that I had for understanding
this topic the relative dir of awareness
that there was around you know dementia
as a potentially preventable condition
and um and yeah that was a journey that
began at this point over 10 years ago
but um but yeah it's been incredibly
fruitful in the sense that not only have
I been able to write these three books
but I actually got to collaborate with
one of my mentors in science Richard
Isaacson who's a you know he's been he's
a neurologist at Wild Cornell New York
Presbyterian who from day one has been
you know really pushing this idea of his
name Richard Isaacson Richard would he
be a good guest oh he's he's phenomenal
yeah he's um he's a neurologist he's a
neurologist who essentially helped to
create the field that is now referred to
as dementia prevention back when nobody
was talking about back back before the
the notion of being able to prevent this
condition was even thought of as a
possibility um it was something that he
was uh really advocating for um and and
studying and and you know and and
raising funding for these clinical
trials that he himself had run and so I
got to collaborate on a paper with him
um oh yeah that's a good deal yeah
published by Springer in 2019 it was a
um a chapter in a textbook on the
basically a an overview
review um looking at the the clinical
practice of dementia prevention and
making that accessible to other
clinicians because as you referenced you
know most Physicians are in fact
technicians you know and many but not
all Physicians are essentially have
become paper pushers for the pharmac
phal well they're well and you can
understand that in some sense I mean
before the pharmaceutical companies were
utterly corrupt they did serve an
educational function for General
Practitioners let's say who were
overwhelmed by their practice and who
didn't have the time to keep up on the
relevant literature on each disease and
that's not surprising because that's
really hard but it does mean they can be
captured and that certainly happened I
mean I worked with pharmacists for quite
a long time in the I say 200000 to 2010
something like that watching how they
were marginalized but also with
Physicians watching how the
pharmaceutical
companies educated and then captured
them and that's not well it's not a
particularly pretty site although I do
understand how it happened and I can
also understand the pharmaceutical
company's economic motives it's not
inexpensive to produce new drugs it's
also very difficult and they do have to
be marketed so um that's all very
complicated all right so you wrote this
chapter that's a that's a hell of an
accomplishment for someone who's not a
formal scientist and so why don't you
let we'll go back to the genius Trilogy
I think in a moment or two but I would
like to hear now that we're into this a
little bit more about what you learned
about Theology of Dementia in general
and and about its prevention because
that's going to be both of those are
going to be news to virtually everybody
who's watching and listening so well um
depending on where you look the
estimates are that at least 40% of
dementia cases are attributable to what
are called modifiable risk factors so
you know you have your non-modifiable
risk factors which are your age you know
age is still the number one risk factor
for dementia Unfortunately today gender
women are at twice the risk as compared
to men um and your genes you can't
change your genes although you can
change your expression right you kind
influence the expression of your genes
right but those three things age gender
genes you know those are your
non-modifiable risk factors but then you
have about 12 if not more modifiable
risk factors so these are the risk
factors that essentially fall under your
control you have a degree of agency and
that is I think what is so exciting and
empowering um and so just to you know
discuss a few of them
and happy to double click on any that
you find compelling most compelling you
know obesity for example that's one of
them we know that we have agency when it
comes to whether or not we are obese
right there's a lot at least it's
potentially controllable yeah is it okay
so is it obesity per se or is it is it
do you know if it's directly related to
pattern of fat distribution like is
visceral fat a worse marker for
potential dementia than body mass index
do we know yeah well there is an
association so so as waste circumference
grows there seems to be an inverse
relationship between total brain volume
so there seems to be an impact of you
know perhaps the inflammatory cyto
kindes produced by that visceral osity
we know that you know fat is an
endocrine organ essentially um and that
the the atopos that you accumulate
around your viscera I mean that seems to
be the most pro-inflammatory yeah yeah
right okay okay so that is the link it's
it's inflammatory cyto kindes with
visceral abdominal fat right but also
even
subcutaneous obesity is associated with
impaired insulin signaling right so type
2 diabetes is another modifiable risk
factor we know that many people today
are struggling from glucose intolerance
type 2 diabetes free diabetes Well we
should be able to get that up to
everyone suffering from it if we keep on
the track that we're on yeah I mean I
know that this is a horrible fact so the
blood sugar curves that are used to
diagnose you as diabetic when you're 20
are age adjusted as you age so if you
take the typical 60-year-old and use the
20-year-old curves many of the average
60y olds would be diabetic by 20-year-
old standards or pre-diabetic which
means they're pre-diabetic like there's
no reason for those curves to be age
adjusted as far as I can tell and so
that's a that means that diabetes as a
factor among people 60 and older is
radically underdiagnosed and if diabetes
is a risk factor for uh for dementia
which we know because I've heard OB I've
heard dementia referred to it's got to
be for at least 20 years by people in
the know as type 3 diabetes yeah right
right yeah actually the neuropathologist
who coined that term type 3 diabetes is
um she's in my documentary little empty
boxes which um I she's not to my
knowledge been in any other public
facing you know content um but I thought
that that was an
incredible um way to frame what's her
name Suzanne Damon she's a Suz Suzanne
Suzanne yeah Suzanne she's deamonte yeah
she's a Brown
University and and so it's funny that
more attention hasn't been paid to her
cuz that's a big deal if it's right like
it's a big deal big deal yeah so you
talked about non-modifiable and
modifiable risk factors and we went
through obesity and diabetes which are
also linked what else what else is
modifiable hypertension so so high blood
pressure about 50% of adults today have
hypertension we're starting to see
prehypertension in in adolescence as
well oh good um but one of the seminal
studies in the field of De dementia
prevention is referred to it's known as
the Sprint mind trial which found that
when people were with hypertension were
aggressively treated via pharmacological
means for their hypertension they saw a
dramatic risk reduction for the
development of cognitive cognitive
impairment U mild cognitive impairment
in fact which is considered like a pre a
pro PR Drome of dementia a form of
pre-dementia if you will um but we know
that you know lifestyle modification
dietary exercise for example all are you
know as effective as drugs and um when
you're when you have hypertension
essentially the blood vessels that are
supplying blood nutrients oxygen um to
the brain are essentially damaged and so
yeah hypertension is incredibly damaging
to the
brain are you tired of feeling sluggish
down or just not your best self take
control of your health and vitality with
balance of nature balance of nature
fruit and veggies are a great way to
make sure you're getting your essential
nutritional ingredients every single day
they use an advanced cold vacuum process
that encapsulates fruits and vegetables
into Whole Food supplements without
sacrificing their natural antioxidants
the capsules are completely void of
additives fillers extracts synthetics
pesticides or added sugar the only thing
in balance of nature fruit and veggie
capsules are well fruits and veggies
right now you can order with promo code
Jordan to get 35% off your first order
plus a free fibrant spice supplement
there's never been an easier way to make
sure you're getting your daily dose of
fruits and vegetables experience balance
of nature for yourself today go to
balanceof nature.com and use promo code
Jordan for 35% off your first order as a
preferred customer plus get a free
bottle of fiber and spice that's balance
ofn nature.com promo code Jordan for 35%
off your first preferred order plus a
free bottle of fiber and
spice you said there were 12 I think we
should can we go through all of them we
can go through yeah I mean so those are
the those are the ones that I think that
are Mo that are most relevant to diet
but I think it's important at at this
you know juncture
to state that diet is not the only
nutrition is not the only variable here
so I'll never know what caused my mom's
dementia um unfortunately although it's
a it's a you know an investigation
that's going to continue on through the
rest of my life but you know nutrition
is one slice of the pie and so among the
the modifiable risk factors you have you
know non-nutrition related um risk
factors such as exposure to excessive
air pollution on a chronic basis which
as of the 2020 Lancet Commission on
dementia was finally acknowledged as
being a risk factor for the for the
development of dementia um we've seen
studies run in for example uh Mexico
City um where they've seen pathological
changes that are associated with
Alzheimer's disease in the cavers of
adolescence and children you know people
who have who have died in Mexico City
who have been exposed um over the course
of their lives to you know excessive
levels of air pollution like fine
particulate matter pm2.5 for example
that they see an undue aggregate of you
know amalo beta for example which is the
the the protein that forms the plaques
that you know is one of the defining
infammatory consequence too or does
anybody know yes it is yeah there's an
inflammatory consequence there's a
cardiovascular consequence to being
exposed to air pollution um with regard
to your cardiovascular system we know
that what's good for the heart is good
for the brain um and conversely what's
bad for the heart is bad for the brain
and so air pollution you know plays a
major a major role um an area that uh I
think is incredibly exciting um also
very scary but but ultimately empowering
is you know looking at certain
environmental
pollutants um like certain industrial
solvents for example um there's a
compound that there's another fantastic
neurologist who uh has become a friend
and colleague and I think his work is
incredibly important his name is Ray
dorsy Dr Ray dorsy he's a University of
Rochester
neurologist who has done a lot of work
um exposing the link between exposure to
certain chemical solvents that are still
in widely being used in the United
States like Tri chloroethylene and
perchloroethylene and the Ed ology of
Parkinson's disease and related
conditions like Louis body dementia
which is the condition that my mom
suffered from um and so we know that you
know what we breathe what we eat these
are all having an impact on our health
but now the evidence is really starting
to emerge that you know that the brain
is not you know does not sit in this
privileged Ivory Tower where it's immune
somehow to you know what it is that
we're eating and the compounds that
we're you know inhaling the brain sits
directly downwind of you know a lot of
the insults that are being waged by
Modern Life modern living you know the
the the the trappings of modern society
come at a cost and we're starting to see
that they now have are likely having an
impingement in our Collective brain
health so you know one of these
compounds TR chloroethylene which I I I
just referenced is still being used to
spot clean in dry cleaning applications
and it's an incredibly volatile compound
it readily evaporates it easily you know
infiltrates
groundwater
um and uh obviously occupational
exposure to these compounds is really
bad um but there have been a a a small
handful of epidemiologic studies that
show that exposure to to a compound like
tce for example is associated with a
500% increased risk of the development
of Parkinson's disease M um this is a
compound that was used medically up
until the 70s it was used
with you know to decaffeinate Coffee it
was used as a anesthetic for pregnant
women um it's still being used as a
metal Degreaser and again it's used to
spot clean in dry cleaning applications
now I'm skeptical of all my suits yeah
well you definitely want to not dry
clean or at least make sure that the dry
cleaner that you're using is a a quote
unquote Dre green dry cleaner because
you know I think they'll be less likely
to be using these kinds of compounds um
but it's really scary stuff my mom was
somebody who worked in the Garment
industry um in New York City and so you
know she likely was exposed to these
kinds of of compounds on a regular basis
um certain herbicides and pesticides we
know are you know occupationally linked
to these kinds of conditions like
Parkinson's disease we breathe them in
through our nose right they have they
don't undergo the same degree of
detoxification as an ingested compound
they can very easily bypass the bloodb
brain barrier you know they act the old
factory bulb actually um a decline in
sense of smell is one of the earliest
features of a preclinical feature of
cognitive decline dementia and even
parkinsonism and so you know as far as
these conditions are these these
compounds are in our environment I think
that that's you know on the one hand
it's very scary but it's also empowering
the more awareness that we can have
about reducing our exposure to these
compounds I think it's it's crucially
important so that's you know that's
another of the the modifiable r yeah
that's on the toxic exposure side yeah
which I think is incredibly important my
second book The Genius life was really
you know looked at that or you know how
much of the how much of a overlap do you
think there is between the dietary risk
and the toxic exposure risk because
obviously well and we'll get into this
after we're done this section of the
conversation but
obviously there's the carbohydrate
diabetes obesity link but then there's
food talk toxicity link too cuz lots of
things that we think are edible would
rather not be eaten and they have well I
mean I've known for years that the
typical plant people are worried about
the pesticides that are on plants and
fair enough but they're not nearly as
worried about the pesticides that are in
plants and there are plenty of them
because well plants don't like being
eaten by bugs and most of them aren't
that happy about being eaten by us
either and so they have got very potent
chemical defenses and they're not
trivial and I've wondered because of my
experiences with diet I mean I lost a
lot of weight because of the diet that
I'm on and I kept it off and that's
quite the bloody Miracle that's for sure
it's really something to like I weigh
what I weighed when I was in my 20s you
know that's really something when you're
62 it's like what the hell who knew that
was possible and I have about the same
bodily composition that I did when I was
in my 20s
and some of that's obviously from not
eating carb hydrates
but there are other improvements that
I've experienced that have made me
wonder like I I had sasis it's gone and
some of the psoriasis patches had lasted
well literally decades and they're gone
and I think oh
well I was obviously eating something
that was causing that is that
carbohydrate linked who the hell knows
but is it food toxicity linked or or
immunologic iCal allergic I don't know
well I think that most people and this
is where the whole the you know the the
debate about the carnivore diet and and
all that I think becomes really
interesting um you know a robust
organism such as yourself should be able
to consume some of these plant quote
unquote defense compounds and Garner a
degree of you know additional strength
in so doing right there's this notion of
hormesis where you know load doses of a
of a certain stressor you know or
toxicant if you will might actually
cause a a response in the system that
actually leads to an upleveling of
robustness of vigor of strength
pharmacon means something like a little
bit of the poison that kills you cures
you
yeah and so that's where I think if you
have a robust for example gut microbiome
you know um I think that most people
should be able to derive value from
these kinds of of of that's that's the
theory I mean when you look at the
average Health state of the typical
person it makes you wonder right and
I've wondered how far down the rabbit
hole you have to go to get to the bottom
given how obese people are and well what
I've seen as the consequences of a
relatively radical dietary shift so well
that's obviously one of the reasons I
wanted to talk to you today let's let's
turn then we went through quite a few of
the modifiable risk factors let's turn
from that if that's okay unless there's
any others that you'd like to
specifically highlight we could turn to
that to what you have been what you
found in relationship to diet and what
you've been recommending so are there
other modifiable risk factors that you
think are worth concentrating on we went
through diet and exposure to pollutants
and toxicity any anything else that's
directly relevant yeah well there's a a
newly identified risk factor and that is
hearing loss um and that's you know
again newly identified so all the the
the verdict the all the research the the
research that we need to make know clear
recommendations other than if you have
hearing loss a hearing aid actually is a
potentially you know can be a potential
Boon to health oh oh so it's actually
the loss of the auditory input yeah and
not a correlation between the
degeneration of the ear and the
degeneration of the brain or both corre
no I mean I think in so far as we know
that social isolation which is which is
another yeah you become more and more
isolated you know in your in your own
world and I think that that's probably
harmful we have a depression sure um
sure depression is another one uhhuh and
and you know these are these estimates
are are typically conservative so I I
said at the onset about 40% which was
the number that was given you know most
recently in this 2020 lanit Commission
on on dementia prevention but I think
that I think I think it's very likely
that um the majority of of cases at
least with regard to Alzheimer's disease
um and likely also even these
parkinsonian conditions which you know
it's becoming increasingly clear that
there's an environmental toxicant aspect
to them I think that the majority um and
this is just my opinion based on my you
know assessment of the literature are
likely preventable we don't have all the
data yet um but I think given what we do
currently know we don't have to sit idly
on our hands you know for example
there's a class of drugs that are widely
being used today on a frequent basis
called um anti-cholinergic drugs and
there are too many to list um but
certain you know allergy medications
sleep aids over-the-counter sleep aids
you know have we've seen or associated
with a starkly increased chronic use are
is associated with a starkly increased
risk for the development of dementia
which is not something that was
considered in this paper um so you know
I think I do think that that most cases
are potentially preventable and another
reason why I believe this to be the case
is
that Alzheimer's disease is not genetic
you know it's we have genetic risk
factors the most welldefined mind of
which being the apo4 alal which about
one in four people carry and depending
on whether you carry one or two copies
of this snip your risk increases
anywhere between two and 14 fold but
these are not this is not a
deterministic gene so with Alzheimer's
disease 23% of cases are you know the
early onset variant or familial um which
is deterministic but the vast majority
early
onset so there's a certain uh genetic
mutation that in certain lineages will
essentially guarantee that a person
develops Alzheimer's disease but this is
a very rare form of it and it's a
completely different monster than late
onset sporadic Alzheimer's disease and
similarly with Parkinson's disease the
heritability of Parkinson's disease is
incredibly low 1 to 2% of cases so these
are all conditions that are I think
mediated in large part by you know your
environment you might have a certain
genetic you know predisposition but you
know for the vast majority of people
that develop these conditions it's not
due to their genes it's due to the
interplay between their genes and the
environment in which they live right
right so it it's making them more
susceptible to environmental assault
essentially you can take for example um
you know somebody with the apoe4 alil
who again in the United States is at
seemingly at dramatically increased risk
but you might move them to a less
industrialized part of the world like
iidon Nigeria for example where they've
done you know this research or southern
Italy and you see that risk all but
abolished and so it really is about the
the genes and where we've you know where
where we've tasked these genes you know
the environment that we've tasked these
genes with having to contend with right
right right okay so let's turn to diet
now you have these three books and then
I we want to we don't want to forget
your film either yeah yeah so these
three books in The Genius Trilogy Foods
life and kitchen let's go if if you
think that's reasonable let's go through
them one by one Foods life and kitchen
so Foods so what were you outlining in
that book yeah so you know I think my
Approach has never been to demonize
Foods certainly not Whole Foods um but
with genius Foods I you should tell
people what a whole food is just so they
know yeah so Whole Foods don't have
extensive ingredients lists they are the
ingredients so these are the foods that
you tend to find around the perimeter of
the supermarket right as you alluded to
it's the of the stay away from the in
the supermarket yeah I mean you could
dip in you know now and then to pick up
some nice extra virgin olive oil which
has a ton of evidence you know in terms
of its um you know it's brain health
benefits it's you know we now have meta
analyses that that show that extra
virgin olive oil actually has a
profoundly anti-inflammatory effect and
it has some it it actually shares some
of these mechanisms with ibuprofen which
is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory
drug but chronic use of that drug
coincides with heightened risk for
cardiovascular events for example but
extra virgin olive oil is essentially
you know as an anti-inflammatory as a
low dose of of that drug but without any
of the negative side effects only good
okay so you could go to the aisles in
the supermarket for extra virgin olive
oil but that's vinegar spices spices are
actually few people realize this but
spices aside from being a you know no to
low cal way of jazzing up your food um
are actually some of the most
concentrated sources of some of these
hormetic compounds you know polyphenols
and the like which we believe play a
role in in health in in um you know in
supporting a healthy gut microbiome and
the like but yeah generally you want to
focus your shopping around the perimeter
of the supermarket and so I'm a huge
advocate of the consumption of whole
animal Source foods and whole plants
which is a very controversial statement
to say today I don't know why but um but
I'm you think it's
controversial well because we've got
billions of dollars of you know right so
it's not controversial it's just a
anti-propaganda exactly right with with
the advertisements being a form of
propaganda yes although they're the
capitalist version of propaganda yeah I
mean 73% of the items in your average
Supermarket are ultr processed so and so
what's the difference between processed
and ultr processed it's a fantastic
important question so processing is a
Continuum you take an apple you slice
that Apple you're processing it to some
degree you know you blend that those
apple slices in a smoothie you're
processing it even further right the
ultra processing the the the whole idea
of an ultr processed food that was
actually something the term was was
first devised with this nutrient
profiling system in Latin America called
Nova and an ultr processed food is
essentially a food that you couldn't
possibly make in your own kitchen if you
tried so these are cool whip yeah these
are food like products food like
products that's right that's a good one
that involves they're sort of like food
except they're not edible exactly yeah I
mean I think like we've gotten to this
place in society where we've ceased to
been able seemingly ceased to be able to
put empirical definitions around
anything yeah yeah right yeah that's
what happens when you live in the Tower
of Babel really words lose their meaning
and everyone speaks a different language
it's incredibly anti-human right that's
for
sure and so you okay so Ultra process oh
you okay so you couldn't make that in
your own kitchen that's a good rule of
thumb so if you couldn't make it in your
own kitchen then perhaps beware of it or
be wary of it right if it comes in a box
or a bag and it has you know a shelf
life that is years you know away um if
it doesn't expire so nothing will eat it
except you then maybe don't eat it
precisely yeah okay yeah and you know I
think like a little bit here and there
like I like to be a pragmatist and you
know I um I've had the incredible
privilege of getting to go on major
national media where I get to reach
people that still do today live in food
deserts you know and so I yeah I try to
temper my message with uh empathy for
you know what some people today still in
this country have to go through when it
comes to finding and accessing and being
able to afford even fresh whole food
right right starting a business can be
tough but thanks to Shopify running your
online storefront is easier than ever
Shopify is the global Commerce platform
that helps you sell at every stage of
your business from the launch your
online shop stage all the way to the did
we just hit a million orders stage
Shopify is there to help you grow our
marketing team uses Shopify every day to
sell our merchandise and we love how
easy it is to add more items ship
products and track conversions Shopify
helps you turn browsers into buyers with
the internet's best converting checkout
up to 36% better compared to other
leading e-commerce platforms no matter
how big you want to grow Shopify gives
you everything you need to take control
and take your business to the next level
sign up for a $1 per month trial period
at shopify.com sjbp go to shopify.com
jbp now to grow your business no matter
what stage you're in that's shopify.com
jbp two things tell people what a food
desert is so everybody knows and second
do you actually think it's possible to
just eat a little bit of ultra processed
foods because I'm very curious about
that it isn't obvious to me that like my
experience with that has been that it's
easy to eat
none rather than some because the
problem with some is that well how about
some more yeah right and that's really a
vicious conundrum when it comes to high
fat high sugar foods yeah because
they're they're hyper delicious well
this is yeah this is where I think the
education around the you know this topic
is crucially important because people
are usually not armed with the with the
knowledge that these foods have a
profound impact on your behavior so it's
it's it's seldom informed consent today
right because we're told that all foods
fit food is food there are no such thing
as good or bad foods yeah all calories
are equivalent yeah and so people think
that it's a moral failure when they go
to the freezer they take out the pint of
ice cream intending only on having a
spoonful and before they know it they're
looking at the B the bottom of the pine
yeah it's not due to moral failure
that's what you're programmed to do and
in fact that's what food scientists are
paid lot and lots of money to make sure
you do to make sure that you do yeah um
now is it possible if you're able to you
know understand the impact that these
foods have on your behavior and
cultivate a you know quote unquote
healthy relationship with them yeah I
think it's possible but it's just very
difficult you know well our our rule in
dietary modification has always been
don't have it in the house yeah right
cuz you'll eat it it's especially if
you're hungry precisely it's like that
'90s horror movie the G I don't know if
you if you're familiar or you saw that
movie but it's like once you open up
those floodgates it becomes really
difficult if not impossible to pump the
brakes so with regards to not being able
to pump the brakes let's say do you know
if let's let's take sugar as an example
one of the things I've been curious
about because I know that microorganisms
they're very sneaky little things and
they can affect complex organisms in
ways that are in some ways horrifying
and unimaginable and so I wonder do you
know if there's any evidence that a
sugar centered gut
biome contains microorganisms that
produce sugar
craving well I don't know of any hard
evidence but I would say that it's un
it's it's likely I mean we know that we
know that the you know the anic nervous
system the gut communicates with the
brain yeah well also those organisms
would have a distinct Advantage if they
could make their host crave what they
need to survive then they're going to
live and there's lots of evidence that
such things are possible in the natural
world not only possible but actually
quite likely so yeah and also your body
gets used to what it is that you feed it
regularly and it starts to Crave the
things that you feed it regularly you
know yeah sure you're your appetite well
look you can see that with foods like
olives and coffee and alcohol I suppose
even no child likes their first Olive
right you have to cultivate The Taste
and it's partly because so the taste and
reward systems are quite interesting in
their relationship because each the
satiety system and the reward system are
separate from The Taste systems which
you can tell because you can eat
something to satiety and it still tastes
the same but you don't want it anymore
now you could imagine a system where the
more ice cream you eat the less you can
taste it until you can't taste it at all
so you quit but that's not how it's set
up and the satiety and reward systems
are somewhat separate for each taste
category so when people say well I still
have room for dessert what they mean is
well I've satiated the like Umami system
for protein but not the system for
carbohydrates or sugar and then that
system is also modifiable by learning so
that you can learn it's weird because
when you learn to appreciate olives
bitter Foods really fall into this
category because they're very difficult
to like on first exposure CU we don't
like bitter things but once you learn to
like them you really like them and so
that shows you that that's a tesate to
that modifiability of well the taste and
the satiety system by experience and so
of course your your body's going to
adapt to what you eat because well for
obvious it's obvious it's obvious why
that would be the case so yeah and I
think that there's like a degree of you
know I mean you this is more your
wheelhouse certainly than mine but you
know somebody who is
has you know higher a higher degree of
openness um you know can Embrace these
more complex flavors yeah um whereas you
know I I still encounter a lot of people
today
who you know adopt who have adopted and
stick to what I call the 12-year-old boy
diet where they're you know they really
only seemingly can appreciate really
simple flavors and mouth feels so what
would the 12-year-old boy diet be french
fries and hot dog it's kind of like yeah
french fries hot dogs ketchup on
everything like standard American diet
you know ketchup on everything just
things that are like incredibly
palatable no
complexity um I think it's a yeah anden
fingers fall into that category yeah but
um I mean chicken fingers are great I'm
not you know I'm not hitting on chicken
fingers but uh although I haven't had a
good chicken finger in a long time but
because they're usually deep fried in
all kinds of you know who knows what
these days but um but yeah I think
cultivating a a a broader pallet I think
is is incredibly important but
essentially yeah your body will start to
Crave what it is that you most routinely
feed it and it'll become better at
processing those whatever it is those
food components happen to be you know so
for somebody who's chronically eating
you know High a high carbohydrate diet
their bodies get better at at Burning
you know glucose for example um somebody
who's on a you know highly fat adapted
ketogenic diet for example they become
better at burning fat and that's why
there's this phenomena known as
physiologic insulin resistance for
somebody who's on a very low
carbohydrate diet for sustained duration
you know they do there is a degree of um
physiologic uh insulin resistance that
occurs where you know they'll start to
consume you know something as innocuous
as a bowl of blueberries and they'll see
their blood sugar go through the roof
it's not because the blueberries were
unhealthy ever it's just that they you
know their bodies have become so well
adapted to um burning fat as a fuel
source you know at the expense of
carbohydrates right right right right
okay so in your book your Genius book on
food does that outline what does it
outlined precisely obviously it talks I
would it talks about the difference
between Whole Foods and say Ultra
processed foods so those are
manufactured Foods correct so if it's
made by a giant Corporation and it's in
a box if it has an ad- on
TV okay if it has an ad on TV oh that's
an interesting marker yeah it's a good
juristic right yeah sure sure so if it
has an addon TV avoid it yeah to the
best of your ability and so what I tried
to do in the ingenious Foods was was
highlight the food C specific foods that
I thought there were that that would
stand out to me over and over again in
the literature as being particularly
supportive of brain health whether it's
by way of their nutrient density or by
way of the you know we'll say prevalence
of certain phytochemicals which um have
shown to be particularly supportive of
brain health for example and this is
something that I think I really broke
the news on with genius Foods was the
role of dietary carotenoids so these are
plant pigments that actually also
accumulate in animal tissue um for
example in the beef of a grass-fed grass
finished cow you see an abundance of
carotenoids which gives you know the Hue
of the fat tissue of um you know that
that marbling in a in a piece of in a
grass-fed steak for example it's a
different Hue it's slightly you know
more orange in color similar to a
pasture to egg yolk you see a higher
prevalence of of these catenoid
compounds which we know well we've known
for decades at this point play a role in
supporting Eye Health so certain
carotenoids like ltin and
zanthin can help prevent are those in
Golden
rice um I'm I think golden rice but they
are golden as well right so they I think
that's and they do PR prevent blindness
corre R correct yes so vitamin A
deficiency is the leading cause of
preventable blindness worldwide and so
yeah they've modified golden rice to
have a higher uh to have beta carotene
which is provitamin a yeah um
interestingly many people are not as
good at converting provitamin a to
retinol in the body um I still think
it's a great source of vitamin A but um
a provitamin a um and ultimately retinol
but yeah vitamin A is naturally found in
animal Source foods like egg yolks okay
so a diverse range of colorful Whole
Foods plants and animal yeah okay I'm
also a huge I mean and this is I guess
somewhat more controversial but I I
think red meat is a health food um I
know you agree with that say that again
yeah I think that red meat is a health
food and I'm not like you know and this
is this is an opinion that I've uh
established Based on data well before I
had any kind of you know Financial
relationship with the kinds of companies
who produce the meat that I personally
you know eat and feed to my family y um
but I think it's an incred it's it is an
incredibly nutrient dense food yeah um
and um well cows go to a lot of work to
make it yeah mhm I mean all those
stomachs right they have right
absolutely so that's the right kind of
ultra processing there you go right it's
like Nature's form of ultra processing
and yeah and so I think it's a that I
think that's an incredibly important
food but right so it's remarkable that
that's been demonized like it's and it's
and the thing is the demonization
doesn't quit because for a long time I
suppose it was driven by
idiot quasi scientists and people who
are maneuvering in the same domain as
the food pyramid Liars but now the
climate people have got a hold of it as
well yeah but for whatever reason animal
related food while there's also the
ethical issue which isn't trivial I
would say um you know that's not
something that can be easily ignored or
should be but but red meat is definitely
the it's the target of propagandists
continually and so and that's really not
good if it turns out that it's actually
useful like seriously useful for us and
and we have what what's the FDA
recommended daily announce RDA for
carbohydrates there's no RDA for
carbohydrates yeah there's no such thing
as an essential carbohydrates right what
which is really that should that's
something to be said repeatedly yeah
that because that's really kind of
shocking it is we have you know a daily
requirement for certain essential fats
certain you know fatty acids like omega3
and Omega 6 fatty acids proteins protein
is m L important there's no such thing
as an essential carbohydrate which is to
say that you shouldn't eat them but it's
very strange that that that that's not
essential it correct and also I mean you
look at the data and beef consumption in
the United States has declined over the
past few decades um it's it's it's on a
downward slope and um and yet we
continue to blow up we get sicker we get
more obese and um and it's a whole food
at the very least it's a pristine source
of dietary protein
it concurrent with you know all kind of
nutrients that we know play a ro in good
health I mean it's it's actually I mean
it is a source of phytonutrients most
people don't realize this but you know
the phytonutrients that a cow ingests
makes its way into the tissue of that of
that animal just as it does US creatine
torine carnitine carnosine I mean these
are all I think really important
nutrients and um and you know and it and
it continues to be demon some people
will say oh well it's a source of
saturated
fat it's fascinating that 3% of the
saturated fat that your average American
consumes comes from steak the vast
majority comes from what are called
mixed dishes Ultra processed foods Dairy
which is actually even full fat Dairy is
neutral if not beneficial from a cardio
you know cardiovascular health
standpoint and so yeah the the I think
the demonization of red meat is a real
shame and it's it's a big problem and
the and the evidence that's used to
demonize it is incredibly weak right
right right as is most nutritional
science stunningly weak stunn yeah yeah
correlational studies in the field of
nutrition are not helpful no and the
other studies that where you could infer
causality they're unbelievably difficult
to do it's hard to get people to modify
their diet and to stick to it and yeah
it's very difficult research to do so I
can understand why they default the
correlation studies but they're not
helpful too many variables those are the
kinds of studies that make up our
dietary guidelines I mean those are the
kinds of studies that again and again
you know implore us to consume grains at
every meal and um and I think you know
it's it's just yeah so so talk about
grains because do grains qualify as a
whole food well certainly the vast the
the the form in which they are most
frequently consumed today absolutely not
there most people today you know the
form of grains which most people consume
are refined grains muffins yeah exactly
right health and even if you were to go
to go to Google images and look at the
image of the food pyramid which
thankfully has been retired you know
it's what it's been replaced by is you
know I would say not that much better um
although it is an improvement but I mean
it was literally the The Illustrated USD
USDA food permit it was like pasta it
was like loaves of bread yeah like
you're telling me that That's essential
for good health that I need to be eating
seven to 11 servings of this on a daily
basis um and so if you actually look at
what a grain is I mean you know most
grains today actually in the supermarket
Market are fortified because they're so
nutrient impoverished that they have to
have added nutrients nutrients added to
them to make their basic form serve any
sort of dietary value at all but they're
essentially pure it's essentially Pure
Energy it's cattle feed now I'm not
saying that grains can't play a
supportive role to health I mean
certainly you look at you know for
example bodybuilders who are in
fantastic physical shape you know it's
not they do uh you know many of them on
social media the more prominent ones do
use performance-enhancing drugs but I
mean grains grains can be used to
facilitate exercise performance and the
like and I think well and you can say
too like socially speaking you know the
first order problem that our society had
to contend with was getting everyone
enough calories yeah right and you could
see some utility in generating cheap
calories I always I often think about
corn syrup in that regard corn syrup is
a very cheap source of calories but when
the problem is obesity and not
starvation corn syrup seems like a very
bad solution correct and so you know I'm
willing to give the Department of
Agriculture let's say its credit for
assuming that or for ensuring that
calories per se are in plentiful Supply
which is the case but man we're playing
a vicious price for it on the other side
of it yeah well I mean this is a we we
live amidst the first time in human
history where there are more overweight
people walking the Earth than
underweight right and so we've solved
the food scarcity problem I mean there's
you'd be hardress to find to anybody in
a state of energy deficit today in the
western world yeah especially and
increasingly in the developed world
except when that's used for political
like most of the starvation in
particular in the developed world is
purposeful not not the consequence of of
economic inade inadequacy right it's
targeted and so yeah and that's a good
thing that we solved that problem but
but these problems are not trivial
either yeah and they're getting worse
correct and I'm not saying that grains
cause you know Alzheimer's disease
that's never been my stance but you know
we do have to look at this as a food
quality problem and Grains I don't
believe are you know particularly when
you have all these other options in the
supermarket like grass-fed grassfish
beef wild fatty fish salmon for example
um sardines eggs you know eggs are one
of Nature's cognitive multivitamins a
study was just published that found that
you know just consuming they were
demonized too they were demonized too
yeah and interestingly and this is again
and to preface I'll never just to to
reiterate I'll never know what caused my
mom's dementia I don't know if it had
anything to do with nutrition it could
have had everything to do with I I don't
know I'll never know but you know my mom
was somebody who for the entirety of her
life was concerned about heart disease
and so whatever the messaging was around
heart disease is something that my mom
adopted and ingrained essentially in not
just her diet but my diet growing up and
so you know my kitchen was always filled
with you know lowfat fat-free
cholesterol free food likee products
yeah that adorned by the red heart
healthy logo on them which you still see
ubiquitously in the supermarket right
and eggs were one of those foods that we
threw out essentially in lie of these
more you know processed high margin
replacement products and an egg is
literally a cognitive multivitamin I
mean it contains a little bit of
everything required to grow a brain
right so it's it's it's postmarked by
Nature you know this is here this is
what you need to grow a brain in an egg
yolk right even if it's a chicken brain
even if it's a chicken brain yeah but
studies are now starting to show that
they're an incredible cognitive
multivitamin a study was just published
that found that you know all it takes is
one to two eggs a week in this one study
and there was a something like a 50%
risk close to a 50% risk reduction for
the development of Alzheimer's disease
wow we know that choline is one of the
most important nutrients in fact about
40% of the um um the effect that they
saw in this observational trial um they
thought was attributed to the fact that
egg yolks are the top source of Coline
in the standard American diet um and yet
90% of adults today don't consume the
adequate intake for Coline on a daily
basis and so that's the consequence of
demonizing eggs there you go you
demonize eggs great 90% of adults don't
consume adequate Coline which is
crucially important it's the backbone to
AAL choline which is the
neurotransmitter involved in learning in
memory right it forms the you know
skeleton molecule of our neuronal
membranes which are crucially important
for our you know brain cell
communication our ability to perceive
the world um so it's a fantastic food
and you know I remember when I'm when my
mom first served me you know that that
egg my first egg she was like you know
she she warned me not to consume them
with any you know significant frequency
because they might clog my arteries
right and we know that dietary
cholesterol mhm well dat was there a
long time ago showing that this I knew
this in like 19
1980s the decreased risk of heart
disease reported as a consequence of
cholesterol lowering was swamped by the
increase in suicide that was caused by
the fact that Colores cholesterol is a
precursor to serotonin so even if fewer
people died of heart attacks which is
not true anyways more people committed
suicide so that's part of the problem
with the complexity of dietary studies
right is you you need to control for a
lot of variables and you need to measure
a lot of outcomes yeah but with these
observational studies I mean there's
always residual confounding like yes
always there's no way of controlling it
way no no you can't do correlational
dietary studies yeah you just can't no
no that they should never be published
yeah I mean I'm I'm Pro plants you know
that's that's a flag that like like you
know that I've that I've planted no pun
intended yeah but um but it's not hard
to imagine a world where you know all of
the you know the the mountains of
evidence that we have observationally
looking at you know how fruits and
vegetables impact human health the
positive effects that we see that we see
at the epidemiologic you know scale that
that could potentially be a false
positive because everybody in their
mother knows that fruits and vegetables
are good for you right and eating fresh
fruits and vegetables today is an
incredible privilege in a Time when you
know 60% of the calories come from these
Ultra processed foods it can be really
difficult to find access to fresh fruits
and vegetables right I mean we do have
RCT data showing us that that there are
beneficial compounds I've talked about
some of the phytochemicals in it but
conversely red meat it's also very easy
okay so let's talk about that a bit
because I was obviously at some point
we're going to get into the issue of the
carnivore diet yeah and so I guess the
first thing I'd say is and you're making
some illusion to it now obviously what
are your thoughts about the carnivore
diet what and its potential advantages
and dangers I think I mean I think it's
potentially a a great therapeutic diet
for people that have you know a
predisposition to autoimmunity yeah um
and it's not something that I would ever
behold anybody here's the other thing is
that diet zealots particularly today on
social media they're very they seem to
be very emotionally invested in what
other people eat I don't care ultimately
what other people eat I just want the
same way about that you know at a at say
a moral level right but like or emo you
want people to be able to make informed
decisions not decisions clouded by what
I call covert activism right and yeah or
or overt activism for for for for that
matter yeah or you know misinformation
or disinformation about what it means to
eat healthily today ultimately I don't
care you know if somebody wants
otherwise known as lies yes precisely um
so yeah I mean I would for people that
are that have seen a reprieve of
symptoms from some of these awful
conditions that people suffer from yeah
like keep doing it yeah I think that for
somebody with a robust gut microbiome
who you know I think people should be
able to tolerate and not just tolerate
but to derive you know a health benefit
from you know many of these so-called
plant defense compounds you know even
cruciferous vegetables which have become
demonized in certain carnivore circles
you know due to you know certain uh
glucosinolate compounds or compound like
sulphoraphane which you know there are
actual randomized human trials that show
that these compounds can actually help
us detoxify from some of these
environmental pollutants that we know
you know play a role in disease
um obviously you can get a certain uh
dose if you will of phytochemicals from
eating animal Source foods but you know
carotenoids like lutin and zanthin which
we know are very beneficial to brain
health you know you're not going to see
a better you're not going to find a
better source of them in the supermarket
than kale for example which people love
to hate on but foods like kale spinach
dark leafy greens cruciferous vegetables
I think that the I do think that for
most people the benefits outweigh the
risk you know um if an Elimination Diet
where you remove all fruits and
vegetables um for a Time helps I think
that's amazing well that that's a good
useful thing to discuss procedurally
mean when we were trying to
address my daughter's um immunological
problems which my wife was on at a very
early stage because she intuited that
there was a dietary relationship but it
turned out to be so complex I mean we
couldn't have possibly imagined that
eating nothing but meat was the solution
like who in the hell is going to ever
think that I knew that fasting was a
reliable treatment for for arthritis and
that's well documented in literature
virtually everyone who's arthritic if
they fast they go into remission but
then when they start eating the symptoms
come back and so well and maybe that's
not true if all they start eating again
his red meat but those studies hadn't
been done and still haven't been as far
as I know um we had tried Michaela
on some different elimination diets but
they made no sense like the food classes
that were eliminated and kept seemed
random to me and well and to Tammy and
and to Michaela and she started to
experiment they started to experiment
with more radical elimination diets and
by trial and error and also because of
Shawn Baker came to experiment with only
beef which worked and so you know and
we've talked to hundreds or maybe
thousands of people now who have tried
variant of the carnivore diet and had
radical especially weight loss
Transformations like I talk to people at
my lectures all the time who they shell
shock day because they've lost like 150
PBS in 18 months and so they're not even
the same people physically and well
they're happy about it obviously but
also
completely they're shocked by the fact
that that worked now I would say and you
tell me what you think about this is
that if you are suffering from chronic
health conditions especially if you're
also overweight an lemon diet is worth
trying on the off chance that something
you're eating is causing your symptoms
because who knows and the simplest
Elimination Diet is obviously just beef
yeah right so why not go down to one
variable and if it doesn't work like
we've talked to many people and I know
people say well anecdotes aren't data
it's like no but they're hypotheses yeah
and many of the same anecdotes start to
look a lot like data so anyways we've
talked to many people who've reported
remission of their diabetic or arthritic
symptoms within 2 weeks of an only beef
diet and so we are thinking that it's
more like 3 months is a good trial and
if it doesn't work well okay the loss is
some restriction for 3 months and that's
about it and it's it's not like it's
easy I'm not saying that and you may
suffer some complications in the
transition to the new and more
restrictive diet but you can live on
just beef so like what the hell if
you're half dead and radically
overweight three months isn't much of a
risk and so I'm wondering what like what
do you think about that line of logic
yeah well I think you know I think well
I think you're right and in the sense
that beef is it's an incredibly
nutrient-dense food it's highly
satiating yes it's loaded with protein
obviously um you're you're restricting
the consumption of large swaths of the
most problematic Foods accessible to a
modern human today and so it doesn't
surprise me that at least in the short
term you're going to see an improvement
yeah yeah um and so I guess my qu my
question is and I think sha Baker is
very smart yeah but I I had him on my
podcast recently and I posed this
question to him like you're performing
already at such a high level on beef and
I don't doubt that you're healthy you
seem healthy and monster yeah and I'm
not going to Gaslight somebody who's on
you know a carnivore diet and and and
and asserting that they're thriving on
it like who am I to G you know to say
that you're not right yeah right um but
you know my question to him was like
okay so you've established this that
this diet is working well for you why
not add in some of these foods that we
know have compounds that you know might
be lacking in beef yeah or like might
give you an additional benefit you know
for example like an all meat diet might
not have very particularly high levels
of magnesium which we know you know
plays hundreds of roles in the body
right everything from you know repairing
DNA damage to energy synthesis like it's
a co-actor that you know is required in
the synthesis of ATP for example some of
these carotenoid compounds that I
mentioned earlier like yeah you're
getting those are definitely open
questions yeah maybe they you're getting
a small amount of them in your meaton
diet right but maybe a little bit more
might you know give you an additional
cognitive and and I'm we're just playing
like nutritionism here with these like
individual nutrients that have been
studied that I can reference that I
about but there are swaths of nutrients
in the plant kingdom that you know have
been identified as playing as having a
potential benefit to human health even
something as innocuous as white rice
right where it's had all the an
antinutrients sloughed off right like
for somebody who's you know such a
physical specimen as he is like maybe
adding some carbohydrates into that
system you know so they you get a little
bit of additional glycogen in the tank
before you know cuz he's still trying to
like break records a Madman right the
best possible way yeah um maybe that
might you know an Adaptive so I can
understand that I guess the the my
criticism of that to the degree that a
criticism is warranted
is it's extremely complex
to and this contradicts to some degree
something I said earlier you know that
you could reduce to a carnivore doid and
then add back it's very complicated to
add back right you really have to think
like a scientist and you have to be very
disciplined you know to experiment with
one thing at a time in addition and then
also to figure out well how do you know
if it's helping like what's your measure
and over what time frame you know so
like I've tried to add things back to my
I added salmon back to my diet and it
turned out that it made me anxious and I
have no idea why and it's a pretty
robust effect and it took a fair while
to manifest itself and so you have these
terrible complex problems with adding
things back which is well maybe if you
added phytonutrients for example of the
sort that you were describing it would
take a month to see a difference and it
would be hard to measure except in
certain circumstances so like how do you
know and that's the problem with any
scientific investigation and the
advantage to just eating beef is that
it's really it's it's simple right it's
like no just do this and I'm I it
wouldn't surprise me at all if there
would be ways of it might surprise me
but I could imagine that there would be
ways of improving your diet beyond what
you would get with merely meat but man
it it really it's a conundrum to figure
out how to go about doing that yeah well
everybody's the other thing that I think
is important is that there's really no
there's no such nutrition isn't a hat
there's no such thing as a one- siiz all
pattern that's going to work for
everybody um and you know in your family
you obviously have you know you have
these health concerns which I think are
important to acknowledge and to you know
and to recognize that you're a scientist
and you've you know you've you've done
the work and you've found this one diet
this this this diet that works for you
kicking and screaming all the way and I
think that's that's
amazing um but you know for somebody who
who is not immunologically compromised
right and who you know was born
vaginally and who didn't take a ton of
antibiotics growing up and was breastfed
and who hasn't you know traveled all
around the world and had infections and
surgeries and things like that that you
know you know these are all like it's
Death By A Thousand Cuts today um and so
you throw into that milu chronic chronic
sedentary Lifestyles which you know has
a negative impact on the gut microbiome
we know that you know obviously an ultra
processed food diet has a negative
impact on the gut microbiome you know
all of these industrial chemical
additives also so are playing a a role
we've lost resilience in the gut I think
and that's why so many of us do seem to
do better seemingly on these you know
incredibly restrictive elimination diets
right well we've changed our cooking
habits dramatically too I mean
um slow rising yeast doesn't produce the
same bread as fast rising yeast right CU
it has a longer time to break down the
gluten for example and so a lot of the
traditional ways of cooking things that
made them edible have been replaced by
rapid cheap which is advantageous
Factory mechanisms but you know we have
no idea what we left behind in
consequence and so it may also have been
that 40 years ago or 50 years ago when
people were cooking more traditionally
things were a lot more edible than they
are now now I would also say I don't
know what you think about this like cuz
I don't know the science in
this you know as the world is urbanized
and as the cultures have mixed a much
more diverse range of food products have
become available now you might say that
was advantageous but I also wonder about
that because you know I noticed for
example when I moved from Montreal to
Boston I developed allergies well I
developed allergies to Oakleaf mold
there was no Oak leafes and no Oakleaf
mold in Canada not any place I had been
and so I mov moved somewhere that was a
completely different environment and I
was not immunologically prepared for it
I just I guess I wonder
too is it possibly a consequence of the
fact that we can eat so many diverse
things that weren't available before you
know people would have had their
traditional diet and really not strayed
beyond that like I can
remember certainly I can remember the
first time I had Mexican food you know I
was probably 16 or 17 and that was
a real foreign Cuisine which is a
strange thing to contemplate now I kind
of grew up on German English and
Ukrainian food right and certainly uh
Chinese food was
also foreign and and not common we had a
Chinese restaurant in this little town I
grew up in but that certainly wasn't a
staple
so I know that in principle hunter
gatherers had a quite a diverse range of
food products at their disposal but they
would have been eating those habitually
from day one they wouldn't have been
introducing new foods along the way so
do you have any thoughts on that do you
know anything about that well what what
grows together goes together typically
yeah right and um and yeah but I I don't
think as a species we would have made it
this far had we had not been as
incredibly resilient and adaptable as we
are capable of being right you know I
think we've never had to live in
factories though yeah that's for sure
that's for sure yeah that's an
environmental novelty yeah so I think I
do think that that that there is we're
we're meant to be resilient you know the
idea that you know so many of us
statistically you know you feed you take
a 100 people and you feed them each a
peanut one or two of them is going to
die yeah right from a peanut I don't I
think that that's a Mal adaptation um
and I think it's probably due to the
fact that you know we're well we're
doing many things wrong um and so so so
okay so tell me tell me what happened
with your mother and then tell me how
you eat
yeah
well you
know she it was really sad she um for
eight years struggled with Louis body
dementia and um for most of that time I
was there with her just a concerned son
trying to do what I could to help
improve things but um one of the
earliest insights that that I was able
to glean from the literature which is I
think counterintuitive and most people
are completely unaware of this is that
you know these as we alluded to earlier
these conditions don't begin overnight
they take decades to manifest so you
know essentially dementia and many of
these kinds of conditions that are now
saddling modern society these are
diseases of midlife with symptoms that
appear in late life but by the time
you're diagnosed with dementia I mean
you're essentially in the late stage of
that disease right right yeah and that's
why Alzheimer's drug trials have a 99.6%
fail rate because you're trying to treat
the condition you know well past the
point at which you know a simple far you
know yeah pharmacological solution is
going to have any sort of practical
impact right so even if the thing is is
that at that point even if the drug stop
the disease cold a tremendous amount of
damage is already been done already done
so it not only have to stop it it would
have to heal it yeah I mean and that's
hard with neural tissue yeah yeah I mean
you know how are you going to get back
the 50% of dopamine proding neurons you
know in the substantia Nigro right right
like you're just not um and with
Alzheimer's Disease by the time you know
a person is diagnosed you know one of
the Salient features of Alzheimer's
disease is what's called glucose
hypometabolism so this plays into the
type 3
diabetes um you know as it's been termed
that by the time you're diagnosed with
the condition your brain's ability to
derive energy to create energy from
glucose which is its primary fuel
substrate is diminished by about 50% and
the brain is a a ravenous consumer of
glucose it makes up 25% of your basil
metabolic rate despite only accounting
for 2 to 3% of your body's Mass so it's
a r is consumer of energy and so any
power outage in that organ is going to
lead to failure and so by the time
you're diagnosed you know that's already
you know starkly diminished
um and so yeah it wasn't it wasn't
really positive I mean in every doctor's
office what I experienced with my mom
I've come to call diagnose and adios and
you know a physician would would
essentially prescribe a new drug or
titrate up the dose of something that
she was already on but minimally
effective if effective at all
and by the time my mom passed in 2018
she was on 14 different
Pharmaceuticals and there there's no
physician on Earth who can predict the
way these 14 different drugs no not even
two probably not even two yeah certainly
not 14 not even God knows like and so
the the level of toxicity right yeah
which isn't to say if there was that
Blockbuster drug that came along that I
wouldn't you know be first in line at
that time to to to fill that
prescription for my mom but it's just
very unlikely to be the case in fact
there's you know there's all kinds
of fraud you know within the field of
Alzheimer's drug research that you know
no came out a couple of years ago yeah
which is something that was incredibly
disheartening um there was a paper you
know published in 2006 for example that
was like completely fraudulent finally
actually over the past week in fact they
finally um are pulling that paper
they're retracting the paper but it was
a paper that renewed interest or R
renewed um you know the the funding
pipeline for this this this drug Target
um the amalo hypothesis of Alzheimer's
disease where you know they in 2006 a
researcher at the University of
Minnesota basically what he did was he
identified he claimed to have identified
this subtype of amalo that was
responsible for the cognitive decline
which was a a big sort of the missing
link essentially connecting
um this really druggable Target right
the amalo beta plaque that accumulates
in the brains of people with Alzheimer's
disease and drug research he claimed to
have found it in this 2006 paper you
know which had subsequently been
referenced thousands of times in the
medical literature you know continue to
you know F this like glut of of of of
research money you know going down this
amalo hypothesis pipeline for
Alzheimer's drug research which was
completely fraudulent that paper is now
finally being retracted God but that's
it's just like that's the situation you
know um and
so it was you know incredibly
disheartening I tried to I did get my
mom on an exercise um regimen which I
thought was helpful at the very least in
terms of lifting her spirits but I think
probably played a role in slowing the
progression of the the disease somewhat
um with parkinsonian with a Parkinson's
condition you know exercise is partic
it's important for everybody essentially
it's important for people with
Alzheimer's disease mild cognitive
impairment any form of dementia really
but with Parkinson's disease there seems
to be really good data there um but
ultimately nothing nothing really helped
you know and uh and so it was really sad
and then Labor Day of 2018 my mom was
actually diagnosed with pancreatic
cancer and passed away three month three
months later so this is where I
think what part of What Separates Me
from I think other people in the space
is that you know the degree of sickness
that I've seen
firsthand
profound and it you know it occurred to
the person who meant the most to me of
anybody in the world and I saw up close
and personal the dir of treatment
options you know the the diagnose and
adios of it all and I was very
privileged in the sense that I grew up
in New York City I got to go to the
cathedrals to Western medicine the
Cleveland Clinic John's Hopkins in
Baltimore yeah NYU colia I mean i' I've
been to I've been to them all with my
mom and it became so important once I
learned that these conditions take
decades to foment yeah it became so
important to me the most important thing
in my life to evangelize you know this
science because I think it's so so what
should people do to learn what you know
and what they should do relatively
rapidly well your books yeah I think
which which is there one in particular
genius Foods is a nutritional care
manual to the brain it's an encyclopedia
of you know and there's and it was WR it
came out six years ago there's not much
that I would change in the book maybe a
few tweaks here and there but in general
the science has really stood the test of
time okay um which was my intent in
writing the book and um and so yeah it
really is everything that that a person
needs to know but okay from a high level
little empty boxes my documentary this
is the first documentary ever to talk to
tackle dementia through the lens of
prevention and so anybody who's ever
experienced dementia going to find
incredible solace in the film and seeing
what it was at my family and where can
they get access to little empty boxes so
it's available for pre-order now at
little empb boxes.com okay little empb
boxes.com do you want to just run over
the the the description of the film for
us yeah and tell us what of course how
you made it why well we know why but
what's what's the film about and what
will it offer people so this is
the okay here's Kathy L hi good morning
morning everybody I just clipped some
coupons that I'm going to never use I'm
going to kiss my son Max right now who's
holding the
camera how's
Mom it's like her brain has low
R do you remember what the date is
today um well how about the
MU no
we know that Alzheimer's disease starts
in the brain at least 20 to 30 years
before the first symptom of memory
loss the million-dollar question
actually probably the trillion dollar
question is why do people get
Alzheimer's disease the rates of
Alzheimer's have skyrocketed what did we
change the federal government in 1980
starts its guidelines you take away
butter meat Dairy eggs cheese all those
things you ate what what do you eat on
your plate what's left the brain only
takes Tak as much sugar as it needs the
overall problem is inflammation
inflammation Burns what happens in
Alzheimer is you have low inflammation
but but chronic low inflammation this is
the aisle of food likee products diet
stress sleep toxins all these things
have a huge impact the question is how
far gone are you before it's
irreversible I hope I'm a good mother
you're an okay mother
I need to go back and and be closer with
my mom I don't want really to take so
many
X-rays and we out of
here the best way to explain the
unexplicable is to compare the human
genome as a piano with 23,000 notes you
need to struck 300 of the 23,000 notes
to play the song Alzheimer it's not
destiny that you develop
this this diseases like
Alzheimer's start long before the
symptoms are seen question is what are
you going to do about it you've done all
the
tests but it's not enough you've got to
be there to help me my said you still
got it you still got it you you still
do they are in the park for the first
time so now it's really up to us so
we'll do our best
[Music]
so this is the this project is the first
thing that I ever did in this space and
this is before I had the knowledge that
led to subsequently my books my podcast
I have a podcast called the Genius life
um the documentary is a time capsule of
me just being a terrified
son doing whatever it is humanly
possible in the realm of diet lifestyle
going you know initiating this
investigation that ultimately would
become my life's work but to try to help
my mom and it's an incredible I think
you know human interest story it's
something that I think anybody you know
who's ever had a sick loved one you know
will relate to um and it's mostly a peak
a very intimate Peak into what it's like
to not just have dementia but to be a
caregiver um and it also with very broad
Strokes paints what a road map towards
prevention might look like I see I see
so it's not a it doesn't provide easy
answers a one- siiz fits-all solution
it's not one of these diet documentaries
that's like promoting an agenda it's
just like let's get back to reason and
common sense when it comes to diet and
undo a lot of these mistruths that we've
been force-fed no pun intended you know
over the past few decades that has
really in many ways affected us all you
know it's affected us all I mean it's in
oh definitely here's another Pun It's in
God only knows how it's affected us
because we don't know how erratic a
population that's radically unhealthy
will become yeah right and we may well
find out yeah and we're all getting
older I mean the oldest Millennial now
is in their 40s right so this is a this
is now is the time and so it's a film
that
I think
really I think reveals what is I think
the most important question of our time
and um and yeah I think it's the most
important project I've ever done all
right and when and and it's available
for pre-order when does it launch June
27th June 27th well good luck with that
thank you so much yes yes thank you very
much for talking to me today you're the
man yeah much appreciated much
appreciated and so the genius
Trilogy podcast is genius life and the
new documentary is little empty boxes
that'll be out closer the third week of
June yep June yeah well good luck with
that seriously and for everybody
watching and listening we'll uh continue
this discussion on The Daily wire side
of the platform of the podcast and uh
well I'm going to talk to Max a bit more
about the development of his interest
over
time I think that's what we'll focus on
and uh so if you're in CL
join us there thank you very much for
your time and attention thank you to the
film crew here in Washington DC that's
where we are we are today um on the
stage at the Museum of the Bible as it
turns out which is a very cool Museum um
a testament to the book that spread
literacy around the world right and that
was really the prototype for books as
such so if you're in DC give the Museum
of the Bible uh visit it's it's well
worth the time it's a beautiful building
as well award winning building
beautifully designed so and Max thanks
again for coming today and for coming
here in person that's much appreciated
and to all of you watching and listening
thank you very much for your time and
attention
[Music]